.TH RDAP 1 "2026\-06\-25" "rdap 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rdap \- RDAP lookup and search client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rdap
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.I COMMAND
[\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rdap
queries Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) servers to look up information
about domain names, IP addresses, and entities (registrants, registrars, etc.).
.PP
The default server is
.B https://rdap.org
(an RDAP bootstrapping proxy that redirects to the authoritative registry for each query).
A different server can be set with
.B \-\-server
or via the config file.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BI "domain " NAME
Look up a domain name.
Displays status, registration dates, nameservers (including Norid handle where available),
entities, and notices.
.TP
.BI "nameserver " HOSTNAME
Look up a nameserver by its fully-qualified hostname.
Displays handle, name, IP addresses, status, events, and contacts.
.TP
.BI "entity " HANDLE
Look up an entity (registrant, registrar, etc.) by handle.
Public IDs are shown when present.
.TP
.BI "domains " PATTERN
Search for domain names matching
.IR PATTERN .
Wildcards
.B *
and
.B ?
are supported.
Results are paged: press
.B space
to fetch the next page or
.B q
to quit.
.TP
.B "entities \-\-handle" \fIPATTERN\fR | \fB\-\-fn\fR \fIPATTERN\fR
Search for entities by handle pattern
.RB ( \-\-handle )
or full-name pattern
.RB ( \-\-fn ).
Exactly one of the two options is required.
Results are paged (see
.B domains
above).
.TP
.B "nameservers \-\-name" \fIPATTERN\fR | \fB\-\-ip\fR \fIPATTERN\fR
Search for nameservers by name pattern
.RB ( \-\-name )
or IP address pattern
.RB ( \-\-ip ).
Exactly one of the two options is required.
Results are paged (see
.B domains
above).
.TP
.B help
Fetch server help and usage notices from the RDAP server.
.TP
.BI "nameserver\-handle " HANDLE
Look up a nameserver by its Norid handle.
The handle must consist of characters
.BR [A\-Z0\-9\-] .
(Norid extension.)
.TP
.BI "norid\-domain\-count " IDENTITY
Fetch the count of .no domains registered for a given identity string.
The identity must consist of characters
.BR [INPR0\-9.] .
Displays the domain count and the parent domain name.
(Norid extension.)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-server " " \fIURL\fR
RDAP server base URL.
Trailing slashes are stripped.
Default:
.BR https://rdap.org .
.TP
.B \-\-ipv4
Force all connections over IPv4.
Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-ipv6 .
.TP
.B \-\-ipv6
Force all connections over IPv6.
Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-ipv4 .
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-user " " \fIUSERNAME\fR
Username for HTTP Basic authentication (RFC 2617).
Requires
.BR \-\-password .
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-password " " \fIPASSWORD\fR
Password for HTTP Basic authentication.
Requires
.BR \-\-user .
.TP
.B \-\-cursor " " \fICURSOR\fR
Resume paging from the given cursor value (RFC 8977).
The cursor string is printed at the end of each partial result set.
.TP
.B \-\-count
Request that the server include a total-hit count in the response (RFC 8977).
.TP
.B \-\-sort " " \fIFIELD\fR
Sort results by
.IR FIELD .
Prefix with
.B \-
for descending order (RFC 8977).
.TP
.B \-\-fields " " \fIFIELDS\fR
Comma-separated list of top-level response fields to return (RFC 8982 partial response).
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print the full request URL to stderr before sending each request.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Use bold/underline/italic text attributes instead of ANSI colors.
Useful for terminals that do not support color.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
.B rdap
reads
.I $HOME/.rdap.conf
on startup.
The file uses a simple
.B key = value
format, one option per line.
Lines starting with
.B #
and blank lines are ignored.
Command-line options always override config-file values.
.PP
Supported keys match the long option names:
.BR server ,
.BR ipv4 ,
.BR ipv6 ,
.BR user ,
.BR password ,
.BR cursor ,
.BR count ,
.BR sort ,
.BR fields ,
.BR debug ,
.BR no_color
(or
.BR no\-color ).
Boolean keys accept
.B true
or
.BR false .
.PP
Example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# ~/.rdap.conf
server = https://rdap.norid.no
user   = myuser
password = secret
no_color = true
.fi
.RE
.SH RDAP EXTENSIONS
.TP
.B RFC 2617
HTTP Basic Authentication via
.BR \-\-user / \-\-password .
.TP
.B RFC 8977
Paging and sorting via
.BR \-\-cursor ,
.BR \-\-count ,
.BR \-\-sort .
.TP
.B RFC 8982
Partial response via
.BR \-\-fields .
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Look up a domain:
.B rdap domain example.com
.TP
Look up a nameserver:
.B rdap nameserver ns1.example.com
.TP
Look up an entity:
.B rdap entity GOGL123\-NORID
.TP
Search for .no domains with authentication:
.B rdap \-\-server https://rdap.norid.no \-u user \-p pass domains 'example*'
.TP
Fetch server help:
.B rdap help
.TP
Look up a Norid nameserver handle:
.B rdap nameserver\-handle NS1\-NORID
.TP
Count .no domains for an organization:
.B rdap norid\-domain\-count 123456789
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.rdap.conf
Per-user configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR whois (1)
.PP
RDAP bootstrap registry:
.I https://rdap.org
.PP
Norid RDAP documentation:
.I https://teknisk.norid.no/en/integrere\-mot\-norid/rdap\-tjenesten/
.SH STANDARDS
RFC 7480 (HTTP usage in RDAP),
RFC 7481 (security), RFC 7482 (query format), RFC 7483 (JSON responses),
RFC 8977 (paging/sorting), RFC 8982 (partial response).
